You've got to love what you do and you've got to keep doing what you love!

I loved to play my guitar in my 20's. I played it at home, I played it at work. I was even bringing it along to classes when I was in college. I had a band where I played my guitar and sang. We even gave a few concerts and made quite a few recordings. That kept going for about ten years - enough to start getting really good at it! And then I stopped. I got into a bad relationship for awhile - though I'm not saying she was bad, things were just not working out between us. Then I broke up with her and started dating another girl - things were looking up. Then my father nearly died in a carbon dioxide poisoning accident. Then my girlfriend found things on my computer she deemed offensive to herself. Then we got married and moved to the other side of the planet and were busy surviving... None of that really matters!

The problem was not that I was busy dealing with shit. The problem was that I stopped doing what I loved and that made my life less enjoyable. Luckily, it's never too late to return to your passion. I finally bought a guitar I always wanted and I play fairly regularly. And I enjoy it immensely, though I'm not quite as good as I used to be some 15 years ago. Nonetheless, I wonder what my life might have been like if I continued to do what I loved.

I used to have a dear friend who really loved doing what she loved. She had been at it for about ten years on and off. She was starting to get really-really good at it. And then she stopped. She had marriage problems and some personal issues that needed to be worked on - she was preoccupied surviving, in other words. But none of that really matters! I have no way of knowing for sure, but I honestly don't believe she could be happy without doing what she loved. Even if she works out all those other wrinkles from her life.

So this is my advice to you whippersnappers - love what you do and never stop doing what you love! This is how you become good, achieve security and stay healthy and happy!
