[First paragraph is all about people complaining about all sorts of strange art-photo skills devalved in the digital age.] I often hear people complaining, that digital cameras kill the art of photography and make it all a trivial act of snapping shots of ordinary things around us. That blood and sweat earned skills like dancing naked in the red light or whatever they used to do in their dark rooms, those skills are now not necessary with few thousands plugins for photoshop covering all possible cases.

[Second paragraph lists great digital photographers and explores good sides of easy picture snapping.] I'll start by saying that it's simply not true - there are tons of <a href="http://www.photoblogs.org/hot/" title="List of Hot Photoblogs">great photographers</a> out there, that use digital camera's (even the simplest ones) day in and day out, producing outstanding results and amusing the hell out of me. And even those that are merely documenting the life in its pale ordinacy are doing a great service to the human race. [Just imagine being able to study the details of some past happening by the images accidently taken by random guys on the street?]

[The rest of the article is about art being independent from technology.] As we return to the artsy side of photography we find the matter is simply not about digital versus analog or even automatic versus manual, as some writers suggest. What really seems to be making all the difference here is the ultimate [accessibility] of the digital photography.

Point and shoot concept, of course, was invented long before digital photo became mainstream, but digital is not entirely about the ease of taking pictures. Digital takes it one step further - it lowers the cost of a single shot, it lowers the barrier that needs to be crossed to start taking pictures. With the price of an error being virtually zero, you don't have to wait for your jaw to drop and crash your toes before you pull the trigger, you can always delete bad shot later. But having this ability makes it tempting to take thirty snapshots a second and choose the good ones later.

I am not a great photographer myself, but even I, a self-proclaimed dilettante, see the huge difference between the shots I take thoughtless and those that are taken into the heart and composed carefully. Digital photography doesn't make our pictures better or worse all by itself, it just lets us do more, do it faster and do it cheaper. Of course, faster and cheaper is not necessarily better. If you realy want the best results - take your time and master the craft! Dispite the technological advances, good photography (digital or analog) is still about being in the right place at the right time with the right tools and skils and with the Vision.
