


                  Do not Go Gentle into That Good Night

                       by Dylan Thomas  (1914-1953)


                  Do not go gentle into that good night
                  Old age should burn and rave at close of day
                  Rage, rage against the dying of the light

                  Though wise men at their end know dark is right
                  Because their words had forked no lightning they
                  Do not go gentle into that good night

                  Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright
                  Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay
                  Rage, rage against the dying of the light

                  Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight
                  And learn too late, they grieved it on its way
                  Do not go gentle into that good night

                  Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight
                  Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay
                  Rage, rage against the dying of the light

                  And you, my father, there on the sad height
                  Curse, bless me now with your fierce tears, I pray
                  Do not go gentle into that good night
                  Rage, rage against the dying of the light


...............................................................................


                                                 Marina Pankrashina
                                                 Home Reading
                                                 March 4, 1997


   The   poem   impressed   me   immensely,   though   it   didn't   reveal
anything new to  me.  The  idea it   contains consistently corresponds   to
my own  life beliefs.

   My  life  motto  is   as  simple  as  that:    NEVER  GIVE  UP.   I   am
convinced,  that  it  is  vital  to  stick  to one's guns, facing every-day
difficulties,  as  to  have  nothing  to  regret  afterwards.   I  strongly
believe,  that  there  is  only  one  completely  destructive human feeling
--  the  feeling  of  regret.   Once  you  allow  yourself  say   something
beginning  with  "Oh,   if..",  you  start   destroying  your  world   with
your own hands.

   Apparently it  is no  use   drooping and crying the blues, for it  won't
help, but  make you  more miserable  instead. Losers  do nothing. They just
sit at home, feeling  sorry for themselves, afraid  to try a new  approach,
waiting for a lucky chance of a lifetime, and so wasting their life.

   Everyone is free to  choose whether to be  Fortune's slave or one's  own
master.  I  go  for  the  latter.  I   just  hate  to  hear  any  kind   of
fatalistic  stuff,  for  it  appears  to  me  merely a feeble excuse of the
weak, who  prefer to  believe, that  all events  are beyond  human control,
instead of taking an effort to handle  them at their own will. If a  person
has so  little respect   for him/herself  as to   admit s/he  is  incapable
of fighting his/her "Fortune",  s/he does deserve being humiliated by it.

   Yet  no  matter  how  much  I  hate  fatalism,  I  feel sorry for people
infected by  it. They  uphold their  ideas with  enviable fortitude,  which
might  serve  a  better  purpose.  There  is  a  psychological reason which
accounts for this fact: people enjoy the role of a victim, just like little
children like crying -- for consolation  and a candy. They have to  grow up
to realize  that they  are the  only persons  in this  world, who will take
care of their lives the best.

   No ifs, ands or buts about it: there are no hopeless situations.  Things
change not only  by themselves, you  can influence them  as much. The  only
thing to put up with is something that has already happened and belongs  to
the past. But "put up" on no account means "to mourn" (for you have  better
things to do NOW and HERE!), -- but to build up a new attitude to that  you
can't possibly change.

   NOW and HERE -- whenever you  are confronted with a problem, take  it as
a challenge, life's test on  courage and persistence. Take your  time, try
your  best,  apply  every  bit  of  knowledge  and experience you may have,
strain your brains and  nerves to the limit;  if you are lost,  try "guess"
answers, that  is --  use every  possible means,  but don't  only give  up.
Strive for  an "A",  but don't  let a  "C" upset  you; anyway, you enriched
your experience, and it will help you cope with a more difficult  situation
next time.




