HOW TO ROCK CLIMB AND ENJOY IT EVEN WHEN YOU DON'T

Take 1 (beginning):
As I'm sitting here on my couch, watching "So You Think You Can Dance", sipping tea, broken foot propped on a coffee table, anxiously anticipating my cast replaced with the removable one this Thursday so I could possibly start climbing again soon, I can't help but wonder if I'll ever bike to work again. Because as much as I love bicycling, the thought of being grounded, taken away from the sport I love so much by a silly accident not even related to climbing is not encouraging.

I started climbing almost exactly two years ago and I've never been sidelined by a climbing injury in that time. I slowly but surely progressed through the climbing grades and was nearing the coveted 5.12 grade (last project I was working on before the accident was a short and straightforward, but slightly negative and very pumpy 5.11d). I pride myself on being careful, doing proper warmups before workouts, stretching regularly (by taking yoga classes) and being safe in general.

Take 2 (whole thing):
As I'm sitting here in a quiet cafe, on the second floor terrace of the Borders store on Santana Row, broken foot propped on a chair, I can't help but wonder if I'll ever commute by bike again. I love bicycling, but I love rock climbing even more and this situation of being grounded for two months because of a silly accident that involved no extreme sports is too hard to process. But process I will, of course.

One thought that kept visiting me often was how lucky I am to have two arms and two legs to be able to climb in the first place. In the typical race (or rather crawl, really) to higher grades, we forget what is so special about rock climbing. We focus too much on performance and we forget about the enjoyment. We forget to enjoy ourselves doing something we supposedly love doing! Where does the frustration come from? How do we get from the shivers of excitement to the dread of anticipating a failure?

A couple of months ago I visited Squamish - a stellar climbing destination in British Columbia, with fantastic cracks, mind boggling slabs and plentiful bouldering. On our first climbing day we decided to try an unknown short crack at the base of the Chief's Bulletheads wall that looked like fun. We swung by the wall, that was virtually within the spitting distance of our tent, I quickly racked up, Adrienne took me on belay and I started to climb. The first few moves we solid (I tried them the day before while scouting the rock) and I proceeded to jam a few feet before stopping top place some protection. The crack was dirty but obviously climbed by someone else not long ago - here and there I could see chalk on the rock. Placing pro in a dirty rock always feels sketchy and that was the first "strike" against my psyche that day.

Earlier looking at the lengthy roof traverse that leads to the anchors at the top, I decided that it would be okay for me to leave gear there if I found the traverse too hard to climb (but secretly, I was hoping that I would either be able to climb it free or aid it to the anchors at the far right end of the traverse).

The next section was too wide for jamming and required switching to lay backing. It's always a tricky transition for me to go from solid secure jamming to strenuous and precarious lay backing. But I kept my feet high and moved past those few feet to a good stance with perfect hand-sized gear placements. Then I needed to repeat the  transition to laybacking. This time though, the added difficulty was due to the width and the length of the section - it was too wide for any of my gear and too long to afford a fall on a slab by wall underneath me. I spent a considerable amount of time pulling myself together to climb that stretch. But when I climbed it to the next solid hand jam and placed some gear, I felt both exhilarated and spooked. Spooked by the consequences of a potential fall, exhilarated by climbing it cleanly and a sight of a bolt just four feet above me. When I arrived to the bolt though my enthusiasm evaporated as soon as I touched the hanger - it was spinning and the bolt itself was moving in the rock. This is where I needed to think clearly and I wasn't. The bolt was unnecessary for this climb - I was sitting in a perfectly sized hand crack with plenty potential for bombproof gear placements. All I needed to do is place a couple of pieces and move on to the roof traverse. But all I could think about was how crappy that bolt was. My thoughts were revolving around an image of me falling and pilling the bolt out of the rock. My decision was to place a nut, equalize it with the bolt and lower to the ground, cleaning the climb on the way down. And so I did.

The important part was - I was enjoying the climb until I saw the bolt, the bolt that was unnecessary for protecting the climb. I didn't know the grade of the route. For all I know, it could have been a 5.8 and I would have sailed it if I knew.

So how does that happen that a perfectly enjoyable climb turns into a disappointment? The answer is simple. Our mood is not created in the environment outside of our brains. The way we react to things happening around us is directly influenced by the language we use to think and talk about the experience. Have you noticed how great climbers call scary climbs "exciting"? Nobody wants to be scared. When we climb dirty sketchy, precariously balance routes with crappy protection - we get disappointed. When we send adventurous, pristine routes with creative pro - life is fucking exciting to the max. And that is how to rock climb - enjoy every move, every hold or clack, learn from failures and mistakes and remember that rock climbing is fun!

Take 3 (the re-write of the ending):
So what went wrong on that climb? Our mood, our emotions are not created outside of our brains. The way we react to things happening around us is influenced by the language we use to think and talk about our experiences. It's hard to enjoy a dirty crack with precarious stances and crappy protection. It's an entirely different experience when you climb the same route as an adventurous one, with thin artistic stances and creative pro. When you fail on the same move twenty times in a row - it's no fun. But when you learn something new and interesting about your body and your thinking process every time you fall on that very same move - you can do it all day long and not get bored or discouraged.
