Long road trips put your mind in such a state that ideas pour in in dozens. Some are good, others—not so much. The other day my wife and I drove to Los Angeles and we generated a couple of ideas.

[REMOVE FROM HERE]
First, there goes my idea. I'm not sure how practical this idea is, it might cost a lot to do it properly, so don't judge it too hard, it's just a thought. Have you noticed how certain physical characteristics of the road affect the trajectory of your car, how on certain turns virtually every car slouches to one side of the lane, almost crossing it into the adjacent lane? So, instead of the radius of the turn being mathematically constant, how about making it to adapt to the road? As the road tilts inwards at the turn (internal side of the turn is lower), gradually make the radius of the turn smaller (you could probably even make the lanes narrower). And when the road tilts outwards, make the lanes wider. And make it change constantly depending on the tilt and perhaps other characteristics. (After writing it down, this idea makes even less sense to me than it did before. If we would be fixing anything, then why not fix those physical characteristics of the road that affect driving trajectory in the first place? And I'm now sure that's exactly what they are trying to achieve when building roads, maybe it's just not easy in certain conditions.)
[REMOVE TO HERE]

My idea started as a joke when I saw a shop named "Unfinished Furniture". Jokingly, I said to my wife: "a company selling unfinished software would be a real hit, ha-ha-ha!" Then I thought "wait a second, that's not such a bad idea for a web-site!" How often do you start writing something and then run out of time or desire to finish the project, but think it could be of use to somebody (even yourself)? Then, how often do you try to come up with something to code while learning a new programming language or a technology and can't think of anything meaningful? Another example of how such a web-site could be of use is when (finish the sentence) somebody drops the ball on a software tool that you have been using for ages and have grown to rely on, you just go and nominate this project on the "unfinished software" website and somebody hopefully comes across and picks it up.

Now, hang in there! My wife's idea is a whole lot better and it's about a new safety feature for the car. It's some kind of a radar that monitors your car's blind spot and notifies you of the objects hanging in there. There's nothing revolutionary about this idea, but I quite frankly just love it. Of course, as usual, devil is in details and wether or not this feature will be successful will depend on the implementation. I see it implemented in the following way. First of all, make the appropriate sides of the rearview mirror glow if there's something in you blind spot. Then, when you try to engage turn signal make it not stick and if you do attempt changing lanes with something hanging in your blind spot (the technology that monitors lane changing is already available) buzz! The main objective of the implementation should be not to discourage the driver from checking his/her blind spot with their own eyes. I am sure it will save a lot of lives!