Keywords: mac software essentials

So, it's been a little over a year since I switched to Mac. And since everyone and their monkey are composing lists of their favorite Mac programs these days (there must be something in the air each year around Christmas), let me show what I found to be useful in my last years quest to become more productive. I will not go into listing all those "essentials" that you can find on others' blogs, I'll give a round to a more obscure pieces of software that nonetheless make my Mac even more pleasant to use. Now, here goes in alphabetical order:

Cepstral Voices

Text-to-speech is not just a toy anymore. You can use it to announce new email arriving to your inbox, or to convert to audio that lengthy article you wanted to read for quite some time but didn't have time – uses are numerous. But voices that came with my new Mac sucked so hard that I'll skip the rant all together to avoid sounding overly offensive. Cepstral Voices are quite good and will cost you only $30 per voice.

CocoAspell

What is great is that spell-checking is built-in in Mac OS X. But the list of languages it supports out of the box is not comprehensive. To fix this problem, I downloaded and installed CocoAspell. It's built on top of the free and open-source aspell and is also free.

GeekTool

GeekTool is great! I allows you to show important information right on your desktop.

Growl

A centralized notification hub.

iScroll2

For those of us who bought our laptops before they introduced two-finger scrolling, iScroll2 is a solution that not only soothes the pain of living with slightly outdated hardware, but in some ways make the experience even better than the one supplied by Apple.

Mail Act-On & Mail Tags

These two Mail.all plugins (and the fact that Thunderbird lacks Address Book integration) make Apple's Mail worth using in spite its numerous problems.

remind

Reminds me of my appointments and peoples' birthdays (exported from iCal).

BluePhoneElite

This is an absolute must if your mobile phone supports Bluetooth. BPE allows you to dial phone numbers (of people from your Address Book), send and receive SMS, perform various actions (including your own AppleScript) when your phone enters and leaves the range, etc.

Quıcĸsıɩⅴεʀ

It is one of those apps that once you try you can never live without. But it is quite a challenge to describe what it does. I've heard people call it "application launcher" and you can certainly launch things with it. In fact, that was my primary use of Quicksilver when I just discovered it. But now, when I'm aware of all its hidden powers, I tend to think about it as a command line with auto-completion on steroids. It allows you to locate something (wether on you hard-drive or in the Internet) and to perform various actions with it. For example, with just a few keystrokes you can find and email some file to a person without opening your mail client. Or you can add a line of text to some text file (todo.txt, for example). You can extend what Quicksilver can find and do with numerous plugins and you can write your own actions with AppleScript.

Spirited Away

If like myself you do not like clutter on your desktop, you'll like this little utility, that silently hides background applications after certain period of inactivity.

Tofu
Reading text with Tofu is like having sex with a woman (if you are into women) – it's just natural. The text is organized into columns of configurable width and the scrolling is done horizontally.
